the average person is getting squeezed
and some big changes are on the way you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you in today's video we are
going to look at several things that are
going on right now I'm going to give you
the data I'll give you some charts we
are going to look at this looking at the
in my opinion the real true information
not looking at some random numbers that
they give you on the news all 200,000
jobs created and all the jobs are the
exact same jobs that were created the
month before but let's not talk about
that no we want to look at the real
stuff so let's begin right here one in
four Americans fear losing their job
this year what's causing it and a lot of
people what they said was they've been
doing the same thing for years on end so
maybe there's no improvement maybe they
haven't seen the wage Improvement that
they want and of course they're hearing
a lot about robots they're seeing them
and how good they're getting they're
looking at Ai and they're saying saying
at what point does this replace my job
it used to be the factory workers that
were getting real worried and then they
offshored the jobs Factory workers also
they were turning a knob turning a knob
all day long and then what happened well
they did get replaced but they went on
to other things right maybe
perhaps but now what's going on is that
the rate of advancement will be too fast
and it will displac jobs you're hearing
uh Sam Alman talk about this you're
hearing many other prominent individuals
talking about it and now we look at the
jobs not just Factory workers and
turning knobs we have to look at office
workers white collar workers and now
we're being told that is a white colar
recession that's going on here now today
what is it what's going on at this time
is that a lot of the you know big sort
of big jobs that we would think you know
maybe a lawyer maybe it's it could be
anything some back office worker even
these jobs here if they do a relatively
um simple task then it could be easily
programmed automated and basically
replaced that is the big concern here
because what AI is good at it's it's
very bad right now what we have um but
what it's good at is it's a ability to
read through an extremely large amount
of information and give you an output
based on that right that it can do it
better than a human already today it can
it can read a lot of stuff and then give
you some information now once they tune
that in maybe maybe it's going to take
not just a year or two years or five
years like who knows at some point it's
going to get real good and at that point
it's going to be officially better than
the humans for several tasks that's a
big concern for a lot of people's jobs
because there's no way they're not going
to retrain they're not going to retrain
they're just going to say uhoh where's
my Ubi and so you see how this becomes a
slippery slope so watch out if you can
start to learn and by the way where
where can you learn I have a video
talking about it I believe the website
is it's actually a short that I did it's
class Central class Central so you're
getting all of the big universities and
things they give away free AI courses I
talked I believe it was my finance
Friday group or maybe the Sunday
business live group where I talk about
Ai and machine learning as they called
it directly from Amazon giving all these
things free because they want this new
technology they want people to be
interested in it to build stuff on it
because the more people that have it of
course the more it gets integrated with
everything they'll be able to take
advantage of it in the end and a lot of
big companies by the way they don't
necessarily want to build everything
they'd rather go out there and have some
startup company offer them 50 million
and then you know within a few years
that's worth 10 times their money but
the guy the founder is happy because he
started it you know by himself in his
dorm room right so that's the way it
works these companies don't
necessarily want to build everything
that from scratch they they'll buy a lot
of companies musk deepens hardcore job
cuts at Tesla and and looks like there's
going to be more so they fired uh quite
a few people and now they want to get
rid of more if you're not necessary
you're fired that's what's happening
today tightening belt tightening right
now the squeeze is on consumer
confidence drops to a 21 month low due
to worries about food and gas prices
basic stuff right we're not talking
about the new iPhone is too expensive
people can't afford it the economy is
going to go down the toilet no we're
talking about food and gas prices coming
in an election year I'd be interested to
see what happens with that Walmart
started testing cashier lless all self
out self checkout big box stores that
was the first in the the you know in the
US and then in Canada this was back in
2020 didn't go so well did not go so
well people uh some people like it
certainly um it allows them to walk off
with uh you know some items that are uh
maybe not paid for and the theft is
becoming a big issue so they're closing
that loophole up uh this is one aspect
but what what they thought and what they
were trying to do specifically was get
rid of cashiers all right the cashiers
make a minimum wage look if people can
just do it on their
own uh why not let's just cut costs
right I've seen many stores many stores
the dollar stores and things they're
trying to cut costs everywhere and so in
some cases actually works okay but
others n not not the case okay you go to
scan this nothing work okay it's not
working can't scan got to wait for the
person but now there's only one person
and now you got 62 people trying to use
the cashes all at the same time now you
have one employee trying to help you not
a good thing you could see some evidence
of what's happening right now with
people's
buying they're their buying patterns
have certainly shifted this is one
example Walmart launches better Goods a
new private brand making elevated
culinary experiences accessible for all
so basically what they're trying to do
is they're just making their own you
know they're calling it a private brand
what we call that on the Sunday business
live session that's private label okay
private label stuff uh they are doing
this to make them affordable a lot of
their items priced under $5 I think it's
already pre- shrink flated like the
they're just they're launching with the
inflation in mind um but you know what
are they trying to do here they know
people want cheaper Goods so now people
are going to see that okay better Goods
I like that that's the one that I like
because it's cheaper people are adapting
they're are going for the no-name brand
they're going away from the big Brands
so certainly Walmart's trying to take
that and run with it the dollar stores
are doing real well not just for you
know charging cables and whatever
they're they're people are buying food
there people buying everything there
because it's simply the
cheapest looking at this General
business activity has been down we
haven't seen it month after month after
month after month like this since Leman
since lean Brothers the collapse of the
financial system hasn't been like this
but at the same time you go out hey
everything looks good right well not
under the hood not under the hood and
we've been told that fed can start
cutting interest rates by the end of
2024 according to the IMF that's what
they are saying but understand here a
couple things so people are saying no no
no they're going to hike interest rates
well inflation is one factor but a weak
economy if you want to get that economy
going what do you got to do you got to
cut interest rates not increase interest
rates so it depends on what information
you're looking at I would be mindful of
what we're paying attention to just keep
that in mind okay then this is another
one stimulus in China would be unwelcome
Tailwind for us CPI so China's PPI the
producer price
index is a factor so if they have higher
input costs raw materials
employment um and of course like storage
and warehousing and things um and also
their their fulfillment on their side if
all all that stuff is more expensive
what does that do they have to charge a
higher price I dealt with this myself uh
for a product that I'm I'm not going to
be doing
anymore but where they can take
advantage is the fact that their um
foreign
exchange is is much more favorable now
than it was before if they're making us
dollar so if they're getting paid in US
dollar well they did get a boost there
but anyway the point is what we have to
see is concern so we watch that we pay
attention and we can see kind of where
that would end up in the United States
and other places around the world okay
so that's for today if you want to
basically look into more information if
you haven't read my two books before
I've got lots of free stuff too compass
on my website totally free no pay wall
no sign up nothing it's a financial
education course 20 minutes you're done
okay that's the type of stuff that you
can share with other people people too
Compass is so sharable because I didn't
put links to my other stuff I didn't put
my YouTube at all there's nothing about
the Federal Reserve in there all that
stuff you uh got to check it out if you
haven't already the money gps.com and
just click on Compass if you're more
interested in the actual depths and
being able to build an online business
and all of this that I teach small group
over Zoom to do every Sunday well then
there's a link at the top of the
description that's definitely what you
want to check out I assure you those
that come in they start learning the
details of this you know at such a deep
level for two hours every Sunday I want
to see you there and don't forget to
come back tomorrow I'll see you then
take care